Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Now this one's from ruin at my poll jizz.
If I'm not pronouncing that correctly,
then what ruin has is a table,
not a date arranged.
A table that looks something like this and what we want to achieve is having a different
sheet with a drop down list on charts.
The changes dynamically,
depending on the value that we chosen from the drop down list.
Now,
the drop down list is to contain these values here in column one.
So if you flip over to sheet too,
come to drop down Li Shing's He currently may have a selected If we select be Look what
happens to the charts.
They go.
It changes dynamically based on the selection here on pulling data from this table here.
Okay,
so let's have a look at how we do that.
here's a new file.
It's called Fire Dynamic Tables,
and you can download this from this lecture.
So this is the base later on,
what we're gonna do is click somewhere in there,
hit control and T,
and we're gonna get this little poppet that says you want to create a table Click,
OK,
and they go Boom.
We have a table.
Now.
What we want to do is how to drop down list in here on a different sheet.
So we're going to do here is we're gonna select Cell a one on.
We're just gonna call this my list on type.
Enter on.
Then we're gonna come over to Formulas to the name manager,
and here we can see we have my list on notice.
What happens when I click in here?
I'm gonna try and change that from a two to a four on when I try to change it automatically
changes this to table square brackets at store.
Now I'm gonna overwrite that What I'm gonna say is absolute.
I absolutes.
Well,
let's just say a two.
That would be quicker A to f 42 on whether we want to go to want to go see a four.
And I'm gonna absolute that by pressing f four don't going to click the little ticks at the
little tick box.
And now when I click on here,
you can see that that table is being selected.
Okay,
close.
Now I'm gonna come back to here.
I'm gonna Wiz over to data to data validation on.
I'm gonna choose list,
and I'm gonna say my lips say equals my list and enter.
And there we have this list here that says ABC just like here now,
because this is a table I can happily add,
a new value onto the bottom of this on this will also capture that dynamically.
So now we have a,
B,
C and D.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
Now,
the next thing we need to do is go to sheet to,
and what we're gonna do is add Look up to the value that's in here.
So I'm just going to say equals re Look up,
V.
Look up.
Open rackets.
Point here.
Comer,
come back over to here on Dimas will just select the whole table se calmer to calm a false
because I want to also pull that description So they go No,
I get pi.
And if I choose number or letter B,
I get cake and you know if this works Okay,
so now we have RV.
Look up.
Okay.
Now we're gonna flip back to sheet one,
and we're going to create a chart because we have a selected here.
I'm just going to select the data from a I'm gonna come to inserts.
And I'm gonna come to recommended chart some groups that slowly off screen.
I'm just gonna pick this one here and click.
OK,
so here we have a pie and you can see the a pie.
Is this cell on this cell on the data is 123 And that's 123 here.
So women do is right.
Click.
Excuse me.
Choose cut.
Come over to here.
And I'm just going to paste it in that you can choose the first formal.
The 2nd 1 makes no difference whatsoever.
Okay,
so now we have our charts in the second thing.
Now what we're gonna do is right click the chart to select data on Dhere.
What we're gonna do do is choose edit.
And in this first serious,
we're going to delete what's in there.
I'm gonna come here.
I'm gonna flip back to sheet,
too,
and I'm gonna just drag over a and B and click.
OK,
so that's the first step.
And notice that this is no being deleted out of here.
The chart data range will come to that in just a second.
So okay,
now,
at the moment,
the data is not going to change.
But here,
if we choose be,
you'll notice that the total changes to be cake,
which is what's in here on DSI will change to sea ice cream.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
Now we need to deal with this bit the data bit and this is where it gets slowly,
more complicated.
Now,
it would be so much easier if we could just use indirect when we use in our data source.
Then we could build a string that points to what we actually want to look at.
Unfortunately,
you cannot use the indirect function in a day to Siri's,
but you can use the offset.
So that's exactly what we're gonna do now.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to create a new named range on this time.
We're gonna select these three cells if we have a these three cells.
If we have B and these three cells,
if we have see okay,
so all I'm going to do for seconds,
I'm just going to select a one.
I want to call it my data and hit enter and know.
What I want to do is I want to come up to formulas,
go to name manager on This is where it gets a little more tricky.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to say sheet a one.
Absolutely.
That is where we want to start.
OK,
so that's our first thing.
But what we want to do is we want to offset from a one on.
We want to come down the appropriate number of rows Onda over two column,
see Through column E.
So I'm gonna say is offset open brackets.
This is where we're starting sheet one on.
I'm just going to say for now,
calmer,
too comer to come at one comma,
three and clothes.
And I'm just going to hit the little taken.
We'll see what that does.
So when I click in here,
you can see that be if I select be it's moving down from here 12 So that's our two on.
We're moving over two columns,
1 to 2 here and then we're selecting one column deep because we only want the first row of
data at one roadie for big,
a pardon and three cells across.
So if I change that second to or if I change that 1st 2 here to warm and hit enter and then
click back in you can see that we're actually Gellin the A data,
which is this one here.
OK,
so now what we need to do is find out dynamically.
Which row does the letter selected over here in sheet to relate to on what we're gonna do
is do a simple match for that.
So all we will say is match open rackets.
I hope you keeping up with this match this value here,
comma in this data set here.
And I'm just going to select the whole of column A and I'm gonna make that an absolute
reference.
I'm gonna make that an absolute reference on no one's an exact match.
So come at zero.
Andi,
enter.
So now you can see that a appears at line two,
which is absolutely correct.
But we only wanted to offset warm to get a I used data.
So what we're gonna do here is,
say,
minus one.
So near when we offset began offset by the correct number of Rose s.
So let me just copy that match Copy.
And I want to come up to let me just click off,
come to the name manager on.
I'm my data.
I am going to replace the first number here.
This number one with that formula.
So I'm just gonna pace it in there on click tick,
Andi.
Then we go in here.
So let me just come off that for a second.
So we have a selected on When we come in here,
we can see that we have the A data set selected.
So if I chose be in here on then came to name injure and selected my list my data rather
and click on here,
you can see that the B data is selected.
So now our data set is dynamically selected based on the selection that we have in here.
Now,
all the remains for us to do is point to that named range in the day to serious.
So just right click.
Come here.
So now all we can do is click edit.
We're going to come into here.
The data range lives on sheet one.
So we're just gonna delete everything else.
We're going to say my data on hit Enter and then click.
OK,
so now when we select a we have a pie because it's reading from here on Dhere on Then we
have 10 6 on do whatever those four and we have 10 6 and four.
But now when we come back and choose B,
it re sizes dynamically.
And when we select see it now resize is dynamically.
So now we could go into the bottom here we could say,
Actually,
we also won t It's chocolate.
I'm just making this up now let's say 66 Andi,
I think they took also that from Venice.
A 62 on When I come back to sheet to,
I can come here and select D and they go never get chocolate to on.
That's how you do that.
Hopefully that was helpful.
An awful lot of steps and you do have to use the upset.
But that's the way to change dynamically.
A chart using a table.
OK,
I'll see you in the next lecture